Hello welcome back to that month's course in our programming.
Today we're going to talk about that apply function.
So we're going to get some hands on experience on policy use this ELB life function.
And so what do we always start off with first.
That's right.
We look at the question mark.
I'll apply and as because we just want to have a quick glance at the help.
So what does Al applied do.
Zoom in here and have a quick look at this L apply returns a list of the same length as x.
Each element of which is the result of applying fun meaning function to the corresponding element of
x.
Very interesting.
And X can be a vector atomic or list or an expression object and so on.
So basically l apply takes some sort of object applies a function but will return a list as the output
.
Now what he wants to do is we want to start practicing basically because this might sound a bit confusing
The Probably the main focus here is that apply a function over a list or a vector so the input for what
we're going to be applying is either a list or a vector.
And we actually have a list that we can work with or with the list.
All right.
So let's have a look at this first example what do we do.
Well let's say we have our just one matrix Chicago right.
So that's how Matrix Chicago and let's say hypothetically that we need to for some reason to transpose
.
So basically to make the columns and rows into columns and the columns into rows how do we do that now
Well we use the T function which stands for transpose and we say Chicago right so far on that you'll
see that all matrix has now been transposed and it is represented as the months in the rows and all
of these metrics in the columns.
So now I also know that I have this whole list of matrices whether.
Right so this whether a list has four of these matrices but Chicago New York Houston and San Francisco
.
Now how would I apply the transpose function to each one of these matrices and then put them back into
another list.
This is kind of like speaking of the loop method right.
I would go whether I would look at dollar sign Chicago right out apply transpose and then I would do
the same thing for the next one in the next one next one and I'll put all four of them into a list.
Right.
That's long.
And that takes takes a lot of time especially if you have 100 or you know like a lot of components of
your list.
Well what you can do and what you should do is you should use the Apply function.
So the Apply function will allow you to apply something across all components of your list.
Let's go ahead and see how that happens.
Can say apply then we need to pass on the name of the list that we're going to be working with.
The name of the list is weather.
And then we need to apply or we need to pass on the function that will be used.
So then we'll pass on the T function.
So what will happen is l apply We'll go inside de-list and it will pick out every single element will
say OK.
Chicago Chicago is one component.
I'm going to take this function and give it Chicago as a parameter then I'm going to take new york.
I'm going to give it to this function just like that is going to say t of New York so it'll have let's
just put a comment here a t of Chicago and then that's the first thing you'll do then will be t of New
York and then it'll be t of Houston and then it'll be t of San Francisco.
So that's what's going to happen in the back end of our when we run this slide.
And once that is done all of this will be put into one big list.
So running this line well here of course we need to do weather whether Dallas and Charlotte what kind
of make sense right.
What we're doing so is just do all these just for completeness purposes.
So if I were on this I will get a list of transposed matrices but instead of doing that I can just run
this line by itself so if I run this line they go as simple as that.
You can see that each one of the matrices was transposed separately so it was transposed.
Then your question suppose Hughson was transpose San Francisco's transpose and then they were all put
into one new list.
That is how the Elop life function works.
And if you want you can take this now and you can say my a new list and you can put it in there that's
what my new list will look like.
Yeah.
So we can just pretty much create that list and store it in there.
All right let's have a look at another example.
Let's say so that was going to be example to what do we want to do here we want to let's say we have
Chicago again a little guinea pig matrix and then we're going to say we want to add another row to this
matrix and I say our by Chicago.
And then the rows are going to be called Nuro.
That's going to be equals 1 to 12.
Right so you can see that it's been added here 1 2 3 4 5 and 7 12.
Now that is operation that we want to perform on every single one of our cities.
How do we do that.
Well once again we go and apply then whether because that's the list of falsities then we say are blind
.
That's a function that we want to use.
Right.
So just like it happened here the first argument will be taken from the list which will be from the
list whether it'll be Chicago or New York Houston San Francisco.
But then we have the second argument that we want to pass to the our bind function over here.
So that's what we do.
We say coma and then new rule 11:59.
So if you recall in El apply help that we're looking at.
You have to pass the matrix the function that you want to apply.
And then you can pass on optional parameters so this is one of the optional parameters it gets used
by this function that you're applying.
So if I are on this line now you'll see that as an output we have a list which is always important because
l apply.
That's what the L stands for.
L apply returns a list.
You can see here that we've got a list of all the same matrices that we had.
But now they all have this new row 1 to 12.
All right this should make quite a lot of sense because that's just how this function operates and all
that just always remember this or the loop method in your head.
What is a dude goes iterates through all components and it plies this function that we want to apply
.
All right.
And now we're going to do.
Example three what are we going to do here.
We're going to apply a function which is called RHO means so there is a capital rule means plural.
So let's have a look here.
Let's zoom in.
And here we can see form a row and column sums and means for a numeric address.
So basically nothing special about it but what it does is just calculates the means of all the rows
or all the columns.
If your call means of your matrix.
So exactly what we need right so if we say RHO means of Chicago it's kind of like using applies.
It's identical to that's common here.
Identical to what we talked about before.
If we say apply and then we say Chicago and then say 1 and then say mean right.
So apply Chicago 1 mean we'll give you exactly the same result.
So there is a play I want a Chicago one mean and there's roll means Chicago is just a shorter way of
writing this is just a pretty defined function in are.
Which means exactly this.
So there's Romains.
And what we want to do if Romains is now you can see is handy when we apply to just Chicago right.
But what we want to do is we want to apply abro means to every single city in our list.
How do we do that same thing.
Actually you can pause this video right now and try it on your own.
It's very very similar to what we've done just now.
And now I'm going to show you how I would do it.
I'll go apply.
And then I would say whether because that's a list and then I would apply roamings as simple as that
.
So if I run this now wider.
So you can see that we've got a list.
And in this list we've got the name of the city.
And then instead of a matrix we have the vector.
So we've got a named vector with the means of the columns.
And this is already even closer to the deliverable one result remember what we had before when we ran
them all separately using the Apply function.
Right.
And then we just compared them like that visually.
So now we can actually copy this line again and we can say we're getting there so far and this is see
now they're all in actually in one list.
So we've got Chicago in New York and so on and so it's already close right so even better but will improve
will improve further we'll improve it even further and make it even more representable.
So there we go that's how to use the L apply function.
And also we learn a new function Romains by the way there's a couple more.
So if we look at what we had here or actually we just typed them here.
So we've got Romains.
These are good ones.
Remember we got a call means we've got a row sums.
And we've got to call some so those are predefined functions in are which are very handy to use with
Elea apply because you just throw them in and if you know you want the means of the rows or the columns
or the Psalms then you just quickly get it you don't need to create anything on top of that.
And in fact play around with that.
Have a look at that and see if you can apply Colbys and probably will make a lot of sense because what
we talked about before in Almendras isn't really much sense in comparing things across different rows
.
But nevertheless for practice purposes you can look at this one or even try doing the PS..
Just so you get some more hands on experience with well apply.
And the first couple of times you do it try to write it out like this try to write it out for yourself
.
What exactly is going on in the background.
What is our doing.
How is it iterating over these components of your list.
And then we go that's how the play function works.
I look forward to seeing the next tutorial.
And until then happy coding